---
title: Setting up authentication
description: Setting up authentication
---

### Setting up authentication

Pull up your blank `app.js` file in your code editor. Most of the remaining steps will involve adding code to this file.

In order to connect to a video session, the client will need access to some authentication credentials thus an **API Key**, **Session ID**, and **Token**. In a production application, these credentials should be generated by a server, but to speed things up we will just hard code the values for now.

1. Start by copying the following code block and adding it to your `app.js` file:

    ```js
    // replace these values with those generated in your Video API account
    var apiKey = "YOUR_API_KEY";
    var sessionId = "YOUR_SESSION_ID";
    var token = "YOUR_TOKEN";

    initializeSession();
    ```
2. You'll need to adjust the code above by hard coding the values for the `apiKey`, `sessionId` and `token`. 

    To do this, log into your [Video API account](https://tokbox.com/account) and follow the steps below:
    - Either create a new Video API project or use an existing video API project.
    - Go to your project page and scroll down to the **Project Tools** section.
    - From the Project Tools section, you can generate a **Session ID** and **Token** manually.
    
    Use the project's API Key along with the Session ID and Token you generated to populate **YOUR_API_KEY**, **YOUR_SESSION_ID** and **YOUR_TOKEN** in the code above (be sure to leave the quotation marks).

> You can continue to generate the session ID and token values from your account during testing and development, but before you go into production you must set up a server to generate them. See the [server-side tutorial](/video/tutorials/server-side-setup) to learn how to do this.

Visit the [overview](/video/overview) page to learn more about tokens and sessions.

Next step is [connecting to the session and creating a publisher](/video/tutorials/create-video-conferencing-app/video/create-video-conferencing-app/javascript/sessions-publisher-setup/javascript)